Set_1/learnings.md, before:

# [Set 1](https://cryptopals.com/sets/1) Learnings

## Challenge 1: Convert hex to base64

The rule we were given for this set was:
> Always operate on raw bytes, never on encoded strings. Only use hex and base64 for pretty-printing.

The rule for this set is important. We want to explore the difference between slices of bytes and encoded strings. Unicode code point strings are different from bytes. Everything is a byte slice [in Go](https://blog.golang.org/strings):

> In Go, a string is in effect a read-only slice of bytes [...] It's important to state right up front that a string holds arbitrary bytes. It is not required to hold Unicode text, UTF-8 text, or any other predefined format. As far as the content of a string is concerned, it is exactly equivalent to a slice of bytes.

I wrote [HexToBase64](./HexToBase64/HexToBase64.go) to solve this problem. In this method, we first [decode the string](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/hex/#DecodeString) which returns the bytes represented by the hexadecimal string in case it is malformed. Then we use a [base64 encoding method](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/base64/#Encoding.EncodeToString) to return a base64 encoding of the input.

## Fixed XOR

## Single-byte XOR cipher

## Detect single-character XOR

## Implement repeating-key XOR

## Break repeating-key XOR

## AES in ECB mode

## Detect AES in ECB mode

Commit message:

go: Challenge 2 XOR and learnings

Set_1/learnings.md, after:

# [Set 1](https://cryptopals.com/sets/1) Learnings

## Challenge 1: Convert hex to base64

The rule we were given for this set was:
> Always operate on raw bytes, never on encoded strings. Only use hex and base64 for pretty-printing.

The rule for this set is important. We want to explore the difference between slices of bytes and encoded strings. Unicode code point strings are different from bytes. Everything is a byte slice [in Go](https://blog.golang.org/strings):

> In Go, a string is in effect a read-only slice of bytes [...] It's important to state right up front that a string holds arbitrary bytes. It is not required to hold Unicode text, UTF-8 text, or any other predefined format. As far as the content of a string is concerned, it is exactly equivalent to a slice of bytes.

I wrote [HexToBase64](./HexToBase64/HexToBase64.go) to solve this problem. In this method, we first [decode the string](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/hex/#DecodeString) which returns the bytes represented by the hexadecimal string in case it is malformed. Then we use a [base64 encoding method](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/base64/#Encoding.EncodeToString) to return a base64 encoding of the input.

Secret messages?

> I'm killing your brain like a poisonous mushroom

## Challenge 2: Fixed XOR

Here we are asked to take two equal-length buffers and produce their XOR combination. An XOR operation is a logical operation that outputs "true" or the value for true only when inputs differ. So we are given two values and asked to find what the xor produces.

I wrote [FixedXOR](./FixedXOR/FixedXOR.go) to do this translation. It's a pretty normal XOR function where it takes the length and makes sure that is the same then moved through each byte and compares them.

At one point I got an error that you cannot compare slices to nil and I had to use `bytes.Equal` for comparison, which I did not know about!

Secret messages?

> KSSP // [this ?](https://kernsec.org/wiki/index.php/Kernel_Self_Protection_Project)
> hit the bull's eye

## Challenge 3: Single-byte XOR cipher

## Challenge 4: Detect single-character XOR

## Challenge 5: Implement repeating-key XOR

## Challenge 6: Break repeating-key XOR

## Challenge 7: AES in ECB mode

## Challenge 8: Detect AES in ECB mode
